Leo example follow aruco marker (#113)
fictionlab/docs: docs/leo-rover/leo-examples/follow-marker.mdx

---

> title: 'Leo Rover Example: How to Follow an Auco Marker'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Leo Rover Example: How to Follow an Aruco Marker'
```

Author: Done

sidebar_label: Follow Aruco Marker
sidebar_position: 1
keywords:
  - aruco
  - detection
  - follow
  - opencv
  - example
  - stock
  - leo
  - rover
  - tutorial
description: >-
  Learn how to make a Leo Rover mobile robot follow a printed Aruco Marker.
  Print the marker and run the example code to get started.
image: /img/robots/leo/integrations/follow-aruco-marker/follow-aruco-1.webp
---

> # Example: How to Follow an ARTag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Example: How to Follow an Aruco Marker
```

Author: Done

import LiteYouTubeEmbed from 'react-lite-youtube-embed';

> An Aruco Marker follower example for a stock Leo Rover

Reviewer: Seems redundant
```suggestion
```

Author: Done

In this example, we will show you how to make the Leo Rover mobile robot follow
an Aruco marker.

## What to expect?

After completing this tutorial, your rover should be able to follow a printed
Aruco Marker.

<div className="video-container">
  <LiteYouTubeEmbed
    id="eHNY-6xmyz8"
    params="autoplay=0&autohide=1&showinfo=0&rel=0"
    poster="hqdefault"
    title="Leo Rover Unboxing and Getting Started"
    webp
  />
</div>

## Prerequisites

<LinkButton docId="guides/connect-to-rover-ap" />
<LinkButton docId="guides/ssh" />
<LinkButton docId="advanced-guides/ros-development" />

## List of components

1. Any computer which you can connect to the rover via `ssh`.
2. Stock Leo Rover.

## Mechanical integration

The only physical thing you'll need to do is to print an Aruco marker:

- You can generate and download an Aruco marker from
  [here](https://chev.me/arucogen) (you'll need to select the 4x4 dictionary),
  or you can follow our instructions on generating markers from the tutorial

>   linked below. It gives you more controll regarding marker size and other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  linked below. It gives you more control regarding marker size and other
```

Author: Done

>   parameters, which might be preferable for most of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  parameters, which might be preferable for some users.
```

Author: Done

<LinkButton
  to="/integrations/software/aruco-tracking#generate-aruco-markers"
  title="ArUco Marker Tracking with ROS"
  description="Learn how to use the ros_aruco_opencv ROS package to detect ArUco tags with
  your Leo Rover and visualize them in RViz."
/>

- The printed marker **must** have a white border around it.
- System default configuration expects marker with id 0 and 15cm in size, but
  those parameters can be easily changed for your setup.

Here's an example of our aruco marker that we used for this task:

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/robots/leo/integrations/follow-aruco-marker/follow-aruco-1.webp"
  alt="leo rover aruco marker"
  width="1500"
  height="1410"
/>

:::info

Remember that the white border around the marker is necessary. You can leave the

> printed marker on the peace of paper, but we do recommend, to attach it to some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
printed marker on the peace of paper, but we do recommend to attach it to some
```

Author: Done

harder material like cardboard - this way your marker won't bend, so it will be
easier for the software to notice it.

:::

## Software integration

:::tip

Since LeoOS x.x.x release, leo_examples package is installed by default. If the
system is updated to at least x.x.x release you can skip software integration
part.

> :::

Reviewer: Comment out this tip and add TODO

Author: Done

:::info

To complete those steps, you need to connect to the rover's network first, and
then log in using ssh (both covered in prerequisites).

:::

### Installing using apt

You can install the package using `apt` by typing **on the rover**:

```bash
sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-leo-examples
```

Then you just need to source the `ROS` workspace:

```bash
source /opt/ros/${ROS_DISTRO}/setup.bash
```

### Building from source

You can also get all needed software from our
[leo_examples](https://github.com/LeoRover/leo_examples-ros2) github repository.
You need to clone it on the rover in the ros workspace directory (if there's no

> such a directory, then, first go through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such a directory, first go through the
```

Author: Done

[ROS development](../advanced-guides/ros-development) tutorial):

```bash
cd ~/ros_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/LeoRover/leo_examples-ros2.git
```

Now, you need to install all the dependencies for the downloaded packages:

```bash
cd ~/ros_ws

> rosdep update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo apt update
rosdep update
```

Author: Done

rosdep install --from-paths src -ir
```

Then, you need to source the directory and build the packages:

```bash
cd ~/ros_ws
source install/setup.bash
colcon build
```

:::info

If your installation went without any errors, then you have successfully
installed required software.

:::

## Examples

To run the example, you need to be connected to the rover via ssh. Once you do
this, type in the terminal:

```bash
ros2 launch leo_example_follow_aruco_marker follow_aruco_marker.launch.xml
```

The rover will start following the marker once it detects it.

:::warning

By default the rover follows only the marker with id 0, and has marker tracker
configured for a marker of size 15cm. If your printed marker doesn't comply with

> the requrements you need to follow the configuration instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the requirements, you need to follow the configuration instructions.
```

Author: Done

:::

### Configuration

All nodes launched in the example have configurable parameters, therefore it's
easy to adjust the system for your conditions. To be able to change anything you
need to have ROS installed on your computer and be connected to the rover's
network.

If you don't have ROS installed, you can follow this guide:

<LinkButton
  to="/leo-rover/advanced-guides/install-ros-on-your-computer"
  title="Install ROS on your computer"
  description="Learn how to install the Robot Operating System (ROS) on your computer.
  Step-by-step guide for beginners."

> />

Reviewer: Use docId if the linked page is from the same sidebar

```suggestion
<LinkButton docId="advanced-guides/install-ros-on-your-computer" />
```

Author: Done

  src="/img/robots/leo/integrations/follow-aruco-marker/aruco-reconfigure.webp"
  alt="leo rover aruco marker"
  width="1500"
  height="1410"
/>

:::tip

If you don't see your target node, try using the `Refresh` option.

:::

The `aruco_follower` and `aruco_tracker` nodes are the core components that make
this example work. As their names suggest, one handles marker detection, while
the other uses that information to command the robot's movement.

#### Tracker

The most important parameter in the `aruco_tracker` node is `marker_size`. If
your printed marker is not exactly 15 cm, adjust this value accordingly.<br/>
Other parameters generally don't require any modification, but you're free to
experiment if you'd like. Keep in mind that once you restart the rover's
programs, the system will automatically reload the default configuration.

:::warning

Only parameters within the aruco namespace (those named like `aruco.xyz`) are
safe to modify. Changing anything else may prevent the rover from following the
marker correctly.<br/> For details on each of those parameters, check the
[OpenCV ArUco documentation](https://docs.opencv.org/4.6.0/d5/dae/tutorial_aruco_detection.html).

> :::

Reviewer: Why? What about `marker_size`?

Author: To be fair I included configuration instructions so the users don't have to be so strict about the marker size. Therefore it's mentioned separately above the warning note.  But this gives them opportunity to change other parameters as well, and I wanted to include some sort of information to not mess with QoS and stuff. Looking at the `Aruco tracking` tutorial, there were info about playing with the aruco-namespaced params, so i decided that it's best to say that apart from `marker_size` better not to touch stuff but `aruco.xxx` parameters.

Reviewer: Isn't this warning suggesting that touching `marker_size` is unsafe as well?

Author: Without the text above the note it surely is suggesting that. But as there is info before the warning literally saying to change the parameter value if your marker comply default requirements, I presume it's clear enough.
